.\" Manpage for tilemaker.
.TH man 1 "10 Feb 2022" "1.0" "tilemaker man page"
.SH NAME
tilemaker \- Generates vector tiles from OpenStreetMap data
.SH SYNOPSIS
tilemaker --input input.osm.pbf --output output.mbtiles
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B tilemaker
command.
.PP
.B tilemaker
generates vector tiles from OpenStreetMap planet and diff files
without any complex stack or need for a database. It uses the schema of
OpenMapTiles by default, but custom vector tiles can be produced by
modifying the JSON config (layer config and general options) and Lua
processing script (mapping OSM tags to vector tile layers/attributes).
.PP
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below:
.TP
\fB\-\-input
Source path and file from OpenStreetMap (.osm.pbf).
.TP
\fB\-\-output
Target path for vector tiles. Specify .mbtiles/.sqlite to create
an mbtiles archive, or a directory to create individual .mvt files.
.TP
\fB\-\-config
Path to layer and global config file (.json). config.json assumed if
not specified.
.TP
\fB\-\-process
Path to Lua processing script for processing tags. process.lua assumed if
not specified.
.TP
\fB\-\-store
Path to the directory to use as a temporary store during processing.
If specified, tilemaker uses on-disk storage instead of holding everything
in RAM. Fast storage (e.g. SSD) is strongly recommended.
.TP
\fB\-\-compact
Reduce overall memory usage by assuming nodes are numbered sequentially
(requires .osm.pbf to be pre-processed with osmium renumber).
.TP
\fB\-\-merge
Merge with existing .mbtiles/.sqlite file.
.TP
\fB\-\-bbox
Bounding box to use if the input file does not set one in the header
(as minlon,minlat,maxlon,maxlat).
.TP
\fB\-\-skip\-integrity
Don't enforce checks on all nodes being present in ways.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose
Outputs any issues encountered during tile creation.
.TP
\fB\-\-threads
Number of threads (automatically detected if 0).
.TP
\fB\-\-help
Show help message for tilemaker.
.PP
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by tilemaker contributors.
